# Arithmetic Ops Group Methods for the Weyl algebra

Allows arithmetic operators such as addition, multiplication, division,
integer powers, etc. to be used for `weyl` objects. Idiom such as
`x^2 + y*z/5` should work as expected. Addition and subtraction, and
scalar multiplication, are the same as those of the
[spray](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=spray) package; but “`*`” is
interpreted as operator composition, and “`^`” is interpreted as
repeated composition. A number of helper functions are documented here
(which are not designed for the end-user).

## Usage

``` r
# S3 method for class 'weyl'
Ops(e1, e2 = NULL)
weyl_prod_helper1(a,b,c,d)
weyl_prod_helper2(a,b,c,d)
weyl_prod_helper3(a,b,c,d)
weyl_prod_univariate_onerow(S1,S2,func)
weyl_prod_univariate_nrow(S1,S2)
weyl_prod_multivariate_onerow_singlecolumn(S1,S2,column)
weyl_prod_multivariate_onerow_allcolumns(S1,S2)
weyl_prod_multivariate_nrow_allcolumns(S1,S2)
weyl_power_scalar(S,n)
```

## Arguments

- S,S1,S2,e1,e2:

  Objects of class `weyl`, elements of a Weyl algebra

- a,b,c,d:

  Integers, see details

- column:

  column to be multiplied

- n:

  Integer power (non-negative)

- func:

  Function used for products

## Details

All arithmetic is as for `spray` objects, apart from `*` and `^`. Here,
`*` is interpreted as operator concatenation: Thus, if \\w_1\\ and
\\w_2\\ are Weyl objects, then \\w_1w_2\\ is defined as the operator
that takes \\f\\ to \\w_1(w_2f)\\.

Functions such as `weyl_prod_multivariate_nrow_allcolumns()` are
low-level helper functions with self-explanatory names. In this context,
“`univariate`” means the first Weyl algebra, generated by \\\left\lbrace
x,\partial\right\rbrace\\, subject to \\x\partial-\partial x=1\\; and
“`multivariate`” means the algebra generated by \\\left\lbrace
x_1,x_2,\ldots,x_n,\partial\_{x_1},\partial\_{x_2},\ldots,\partial\_{x_n}\right\rbrace\\
where \\n\>1\\.

The product is somewhat user-customisable via option `prodfunc`, which
affects function `weyl_prod_univariate_onerow()`. Currently the package
offers three examples: `weyl_prod_helper1()`, `weyl_prod_helper2()`, and
`weyl_prod_helper3()`. These are algebraically identical but occupy
different positions on the efficiency-readability scale. The option
defaults to `weyl_prod_helper3()`, which is the fastest but most opaque.
The vignette provides further details, motivation, and examples.

Powers, as in `x^n`, are defined in the usual way. Negative powers will
always return an error.

## Value

Generally, return a weyl object

## Author

Robin K. S. Hankin

## Note

Function `weyl_prod_univariate_nrow()` is present for completeness, it
is not used in the package

## Examples

``` r
x <- rweyl(n=1,d=2)
y <- rweyl(n=1,d=2)
z <- rweyl(n=2,d=2)


x*(y+z) == x*y + x*z
#> [1] TRUE
is.zero(x*(y*z) - (x*y)*z)
#> [1] TRUE
```
